Steps and Boilerplate (#2)
vtex-apps/service-course: course/steps/05-clients-masterdata/en.md

# Clients: Using Master Data

## Introduction

> Now that we are using the data retrieved from the _Analytics_, we need to save this data and update it. So, everytime we retrieve new data we want to update it using **Master Data**, your database for VTEX IO.

Reviewer: Database-as-a-service product from VTEX*

O MD veio antes do IO e muita gente usa por lá ainda, acho melhor tirar essa caracterização

> Now that we are using the data retrieved from the _Analytics_, we need to save this data and update it. So, everytime we retrieve new data we want to update it using **Master Data**, your database for VTEX IO.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we are using the data retrieved from the _Analytics_, we need to save this data and update it. So, every time we retrieve new data we want to update it using **Master Data** (a database-as-a-service product from VTEX).
```

## Master Data Client

> **Master Data** is the VTEX module that makes it possible to create database architectures for a store. By default, it's used to store and organize customer data, but it's also widely used by VTEX stores to make business rule customizations and create applications for your virtual store. You can configure applications that use the module as a data repository to create a system on top of Master Data, just by modeling new data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Master Data** is the VTEX service that makes it possible to create database architectures for a store. By default, it's used to store and organize customer data, but it's also widely used by VTEX stores to make business rule customizations and create applications for your virtual store. You can configure applications that use the module as a data repository to create a system on top of Master Data, just by modeling new data.
```

> In the current version of **Master Data**, we use the concept of _data entities_ and use [JSON Schema](https://spacetelescope.github.io/understanding-json-schema/) to validate documents. One _data entity_ can have many _schemas_, depending on how you need to use the data stored. You'll need the name of the JSON Schema to implement a query, as will be seen in the following steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the current version of **Master Data**, we use the concept of _data entities_ and use [JSON Schema](https://spacetelescope.github.io/understanding-json-schema/) to validate and index documents. One _data entity_ can have many _schemas_, depending on how you need to use the data stored. You'll need the name of the JSON Schema to implement a query, as will be seen in the following steps.
```

> > Note: the JSON Schema is not required for all cases. If you don't need to validate your data, you may save your documents without any setup, just indicate the data entity and some access credential. Like your case now, as we need validation, we must create a JSON Schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: the JSON Schema is not required for all endpoints. If you don't need to validate your data, you may save your documents without any setup, just indicate the data entity and some access credential. Like your case now, as we need validation, we must create a JSON Schema.
```

> **Master Data Documents** have unique IDs and can have many customized fields. In the JSON Schema, you can declare fields and indicate the ones that you want to index. Indexed fields can be retrieved in queries.

Reviewer: Muito bom 👏

> **Master Data client** is already implemented in VTEX API. It is possible to access this client through the `Context`, a param which contains all IO Clients in the clients property. Here it will be used to fetch data regarding the top-N most viewed products, where N is a parameter that will be used to get the desired amount of products.

Reviewer: Deixa mais em destaque essa parte do que "o que vamos fazer nesse step", desacoplando da explicação do MD

Reviewer 2: + 1

> **Master Data client** is already implemented in VTEX API. It is possible to access this client through the `Context`, a param which contains all IO Clients in the clients property. Here it will be used to fetch data regarding the top-N most viewed products, where N is a parameter that will be used to get the desired amount of products.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A **Master Data client** is already provided in VTEX IO Node Runtime. It is possible to access this client through the `Context`, a param which contains all IO Clients in the clients property. Here it will be used to fetch data regarding the top-N most viewed products, where N is a parameter that will be used to get the desired amount of products.
```

> It is important to highlight that this param contains the master data client as long as the correct version of `@vtex/api` is installed in the node folder. It can be used by accessing `ctx.clients.masterdata`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** It is important to highlight that the Master Data client will be available as long as the correct version of `@vtex/api` is installed in the node folder. It can be used by accessing `ctx.clients.masterdata`.
```

## Activity

1. First, we need to setup the policies in our app, to authorize it to use **Master Data**. In the `manifest.json` file, add the following:

    ```diff
    //manifest.json
    {
      ...
      },
      "credentialType": "absolute",
      "policies": [
    +      {
    +        "name": "ADMIN_DS"
    +      },
    +    {
    +      "name": "outbound-access",
    +      "attrs": {
    +        "host": "api.vtex.com",

>     +        "path": "/*"

Reviewer: O que você acha de specializar aqui no `path`? Acho que é `/dataentities` ou alguma coisa assim

Reviewer 2: +1

    +      }
    +    }
      ],
      "dependencies": {
      ...
    }
    ```

    > By doing this, we are guaranteeing that this app has the authorization to access **Master Data**.

> 2. Now, to save this data in the **Master Data**, we need to, first, check for each product, if it is already saved. To do so, we will use a method of the Master Data client called `searchDocuments`. In the `node/event/updateLiveUsers.ts` file, add the following:

Reviewer: Não é o `product` mesmo né? É a informação de live-users. Acho que vale dar uma mastigada melhor aqui

Reviewer 2: productSlug*

    ```diff
    //node/event/updateLiveUsers.ts
    ...
    + import { COURSE_ENTITY } from '../utils/constants'

    export async function updateLiveUsers(ctx: EventContext<Clients>) {
      const liveUsersProducts = await ctx.clients.analytics.getLiveUsers()

>       console.log('LIVE USERS ', liveUsersProducts)

Reviewer 2: Esse code chunk tá meio grande, será que não dá para ir colocando aos poucos?

    +  await Promise.all(
    +    liveUsersProducts.map(async ({ slug, liveUsers }) => {
    +      try {

>     +        const [savedProduct] = await ctx.clients.masterdata.searchDocuments<{

Reviewer 3: Eu colocaria o typing em uma interface separada, em nome da legibilidade

Reviewer 2: +1

    +          id: string
    +          count: number
    +          slug: string
    +        }>({
    +          dataEntity: COURSE_ENTITY,
    +          fields: ['count', 'id', 'slug'],
    +          pagination: {
    +            page: 1,
    +            pageSize: 1,
    +          },
    +          schema: 'v1',
    +          where: `slug=${slug}`,
    +        })
    +

>     +        console.log('SAVED PRODUCT', savedProduct)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    +        console.log({ savedProduct})
```

Acho assim mais elegante kkkk Adota se vc achar legal

    +
    +      } catch {

>     +        console.log(`failed to update product ${slug}`)

Reviewer: Deixa claro em algum canto, com destaque, que se você lançar um erro ou deixar um erro ser lançado em um eventHandler o VTEX IO vai tentar reenviar esse evento.

Reviewer 2: +1

    ```diff
    //node/event/updateLiveUsers.ts
    export async function updateLiveUsers(ctx: EventContext<Clients>) {
      await Promise.all(
        liveUsersProducts.map(async ({ slug, liveUsers }) => {
          try {
            ...
            console.log('SAVED PRODUCT', savedProduct)
    +       await ctx.clients.masterdata.createOrUpdateEntireDocument({
    +          dataEntity: COURSE_ENTITY,
    +          fields: {
    +            count: liveUsers,
    +            slug,
    +          },
    +          id: savedProduct?.id,
    +        })
          } catch {
            console.log(`failed to update product ${slug}`)
          }
        })
      )
      return true
    }
    ```

4. Finally, run `vtex link` and wait for an event to be fired. Once it does, check your terminal for the logs in the code. Break the `vtex link` by typing `ctrl + C` and use the following _cURL_ on the terminal to check the updates on **Master Data**:

    ```

>     curl --location --request GET 'https://api.vtex.com/api/dataentities/backendproductusers/search?_fields=slug,count&_schema=v1&an=appliancetheme' \

Reviewer: Como ficou a questão da autenticação? Isso aqui tá publico já?

Reviewer 2: Sim, a gente colocou como public fields no schema 😬
